So what is DevOps bring to the table?
DevOps offers you a set of practices,
best practices and tools that you're going to
use to solve these problems that I just mentioned.
I'll give you one example right now,
Configuration Management tools such as Chef, Puppet,
and Ansible are tools designed to deploy and manage configuration changes to servers,
could be 1, 100 or 1000 at the same time.
This changes are written as code.
You write this code, you put it in a repository just like source code from developers,
and this allowed the operational people to take this code and
make a patch or unnecessary configuration change to servers.
Once these tests are then working,
you can apply this same change
to the development environment avoiding configuration drift.
Another benefit of DevOps is deployments.
Deployments are done in a very automated and predictable fashion,
what this means is you could have the development team along with operations,
create a deployment automation task,
and this task is going to deploy not
only to test but it's going to be the same for production,
is just going to be different credentials, different environment,
variables, but the process essentially is going to be the same.
The predictability of this deployment makes everything a world of difference,
because now you have code that you know that you don't care which person deploys it,
is going to work as it was originally designed to be deployed,
not because of some configuration
tasks list that you were handed and you had to do it that way.
No, it's an automator script that handles deployment,
doesn't matter if is to development,
to a staging, or production.